Hi I'm Jan from Cloud9 IDE, and today we are releasing a great addition to our cloud deployment stack with the addition of Windows Azure.

Here's a demo: let's open node_chat, one of the de-facto demo application for node.js. I already made this Cloud9 compatible by removing the globals and letting it listen to process.env.PORT.

To deploy this application to the reliable cloud services at Microsoft, we switch to the 'Deploy' panel and hit the '+' icon. In addition to Heroku and Joyent we now offer Windows Azure in the target list.

For authentication, we require you to download your Azure credentials once by clicking the green button. 

If you don't have an account yet, you can sign up for the completely free 3 month trial.

Now sign in and wait for the download to get started. This file contains all the relevant information to allow us to deploy to your account.

Hereafter select the file on your file system, and upload it back to Cloud9. Because downloading the file takes a while we'll grab one I downloaded earlier.

After around 20 seconds, you will see your existing applications, and can deploy to them with one click; but we'll add a new one.

Give your application a unique name, choose the number of instances you want the app to run on, which is the great part of running apps in the cloud. Select an operating system and a data center.

Now the deploy target is saved and is ready for action!

Click the target, choose 'Production' and hit 'Deploy'. The first time we'll auto create a configuration file for you. Now we'll ask for another configuration file, and present you with a wizard. Choose 'Extra Small' and hit 'Create'. Your deploy will now start.

For those familiar with Cloud9, we have added status information for the deploys, both inline and in the Console. This has been added for Heroku and Joyent deploys as well.

Because fresh Azure deployments can take up to 10 minutes we'll take a short break and come back shortly.




----

We're back and the application has been deployed. The status of the deploy target has gone back to normal and is once again ready for action.

You can now reach your applications in two ways, either by clicking the target and clicking on the 'Url' or by clicking on the link in your console.

If we now hit it you'll see your application running load balanced on two Virtual Machines in the Windows Azure data center.

Happy coding and happy deploying!






























